<em style="font-size:1 em;">  <!-- em = italics -->
Today’s reflection is based on the book *Hackers and Painters: Big ideas from the computer age by Paul Graham*
</em>

<strong style="font-size:1.3em;"> <!-- strong = bold -->
How important is the choice of programming language in software development and computer science? What is lacking in our current set of tools? What ideas or features will continue to persist far into the future?
</strong>

One of the first questions people ask me when they realize Spanish is my first language (not that it’s hard to guess with my accent) is: What language do you think in? And for me, the answer is way more complicated than people expect. It really just depends. I’m kinda one of those people who makes up random scenarios in my head, and its weird because so the language I think in changes depending on what the scenario Im thinking about.

For example, if my daydream is about suddenly developing powers like the Avatar (Avatar the last Airbender, not the blue guy/alien thingy), then I think about it in English. I honestly don’t really know why, but my best guess is that things in English feel less cringey to me than in Spanish. Maybe because I can kind of distance myself from it. But if the scenario is something more serious, like imagining myself getting a job, then I think about it in Spanish. So I guess I have a language for different types of situations, and honestly, I have no clue why my brain does this; it just feels natural. And I guess this is exactly what happens when programming. 

Each programming language has different advantages. Some are easier to read, others give you more control, and some are better for working with data or building things quickly. That’s why I don’t think the choice of language is the most important part; it’s more about how well the language fits what you’re trying to do. At the end of the day, I do believe you can do whatever you want in any language, but there will always be a better choice depending on what you are trying to achieve. 

But I do believe the most important part of learning different languages is how it expands the way you think. It’s like English and Spanish: they’re clearly different languages with their own structures and rules, but as you learn them, you start to notice that certain phrases or words can be translated across. Each one represents a way of thinking, a way of approaching a problem. And even within the same language, different cultures have variations that shape how people express ideas. That’s why it’s important to learn more than just one programming language; you have to develop the skills required to use each of them, and instead of keeping them separate, you can use them to complement each other. That’s why Spanglish is so common: people mix both languages because together they bring out expressions that wouldn’t feel the same in just one.

This is where I think we are lacking, where ND fails: in bringing these languages and all the skills we learn in each together. I feel like we separate our knowledge too much. In my mind, threads mean C, visualizations mean Python, and it just keeps going like that. I’ve never had a project where I actually integrated all those skills and made them complement each other. Maybe that’s why I loved working with paradigms so much, we got to explore and in a way strat mixing these ideas. Like exploring Scheme was so fun; it was something new, and I had fun exploring it without even realizing that it was also teaching me to think in a completely different way. I think I just wish we had more freedom to explore languages and different forms of expression on our own.