<em style="font-size:1 em;">  <!-- em = italics -->
Today’s reflection is based on the book *Hackers and Painters: Big ideas from the computer age by Paul Graham*
</em>

<strong style="font-size:1.3em;"> <!-- strong = bold -->
What does the prominence of modern hackers such as Paul Graham say about our our notions of success and the qualities required to achieve it. Should our society and culture encourage risk taking and starting businesses? What is the next big thing?
</strong>

 Paul Graham presents a very compelling idea in his essay: “You can think of a startup as a way to compress your whole working life into a few years. Instead of working at a low intensity for forty years, you work as hard as you possibly can for four.” This raises the big question: who chooses the startup path versus the more traditional one? When I reflect on my own goals, my first instinct is to say yes, I would take the startup route. After all, during my internship this summer, the thought that kept returning to me was that the only reason I enjoyed the experience and could handle the workload was that I knew it was temporary, just two months. The idea of doing that same level of work for 40 or 50 years straight made me want to cry. So, if I could compress those decades into four intense but meaningful years, I would absolutely choose the startup path. But then, when I think about it in more detail, there are so many unknown factors that I wonder if I would take the risk. Since we have to consider that there's nothing to assure you that your startup will even be successful, so what if you lose all your money, then nobody said that your startup would become greatly successful in only 4 years, what if it takes more time, what if you have to work all day every day for 10 years before you reach that success point. In that case, is it worth it, or is the cost too much? To be honest, I don’t think I could survive if I had to work that much for 10 years. So maybe in that case I would prefer working 40 years that are stable, at least that in some way would allow me to find that work-life balance where I can be miserable for half the day and then happy for the other half, instead of just straight up miserable.
​
I think Graham’s essays tend to romanticize startups. While it’s true that they can be a faster route to wealth (which, at the end of the day, is the dream), they’re also the riskier path. If only about 10% of startups actually succeed, that means there’s a 90% chance of failure. Maybe I’m just not much of a risk-taker; it feels like one of those game shows where contestants keep betting they can outdo the last prize. I’m always the one yelling at the TV, “Just take what you have, that’s enough!”. So if there was no risk, yes, I would try building my own startup; it even sounds fun, but there’s too much risk, and I'm simply not the correct person to take that risk head-on. This also means that I would work on a start-up if and only if I get paid a good salary (with possibility of gaining shares in the company) and I am not required to invest money on the start-up. Then if I am not the owner and have nothing to loose and only things to gain I would totally do it, because then not only do I get the opportunity of monetary gain, but I also agree with the fact that startups are a great way to learn, they give you so much experience that you can’t get in a normal company. 



