<em style="font-size:1 em;">  <!-- em = italics -->
Today’s reflection is based on the book *Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution (PART THREE)
</em>

<strong style="font-size:1.3em;"> <!-- strong = bold -->
Can the Hacker Ethic truly and fully survive in a world of commercial and proprietary software? Is it better to be a "professional programmer, ... the goal-oriented ... responsible engineer" or is it better to be a programmer with "love for [computing] in [your] heart" and "hacker perfectionism in [your] soul"?
</strong>

Why do we frame the pursuit of money as a betrayal of the Hacker Ethic? The truth is, money is not inherently evil; it is necessary. In today’s world, it is simply easier to live, support a family, and even pursue your passions if you have financial stability, so if money can make your life easier, why would someone not want it? Yes, it’s true that money alone won’t bring complete fulfillment, but to dismiss it as “greed” feels overly simplistic because, for many people, that financial security that many dismiss is what allows them the time and space to explore their creativity.

When I was choosing a major, I couldn’t just think about what I enjoyed; I had to think about what would give me the best chance at a good future. And I can’t think of just myself, if I could, maybe I’d have more freedom to explore the things I liked the most. Instead, I have to think about making enough to support my family, and maybe even enough to help them leave a country that is quickly crumbling around them. So yeah, I chose Computer Science because of the options I had, this one was the one I liked the most, and in the long term, I hope I can learn to love it like some other people do. And I really think I will because the good thing about programming in today's world is that everything uses technology, so technically I could go into any field, it's just a matter of finding which one motivates me the most.

At the same time, I think it’s worth considering that professional hackers like Ken Williams weren’t any less creative or intelligent just because money was part, or most, of their motivation. In a way I believed they still had to find creative solutions to problems and often had to think outside the box to succeed which isn't what “True Hackers” did. Not everyone can find a need or want of the community and find a way to satiate it. The big difference was that their “hacker joy” came from making money. They still had skills, they were still smart and you know what some would say they were smarter because they knew how to play the game of real life. I think it just means their passion was directed toward a different kind of challenge, they .

Overall, maybe what people today need to learn is a new way of Hacker Ethics, a version that can survive in a corporate world. We should still pursue creativity, openness and the joy of just coding within the bounds of the realities of our job. Find a balance between doing work that you might not enjoy and having time to explore your creativity. And I think this is what companies are doing to help keep their employees motivated, to help them continue to innovate instead of becoming sad and depressed robots. From my understanding some companies allow their employees time for personal innovation, time that can be used on pursuing your passion, on learning new skills, or working on a personal project. Time like this can be used to learn how to love programming again, or just as importantly time not to forget why you loved it in the first place. So maybe a professional hacker doesn’t have to completely abandon the Hacker Ethics, they just need a modified version that applies to today's commercialized world. 

