<em style="font-size:1 em;">  <!-- em = italics -->
Today’s reflection is based on the book *Hackers and Painters: Big ideas from the computer age by Paul Graham*
</em>

<strong style="font-size:1.3em;"> <!-- strong = bold -->
Is Paul Graham's version of a hacker compatible with Steven Levy's description? Do his arguments for and description of the modern hacker change your mind about what it means to be a hacker or the desirability of being one?
</strong>

Maybe it’s because I didn’t go to high school in the United States, but I’ve never really understood the stereotypes people talk about. Outside of movies, I never witnessed a clear divide between “jocks” and “nerds,” or the popular versus the unpopular. At my school, many of the so-called “popular” students were also at the top of their academic class, and being smart was never viewed as a negative thing. In fact, it often made you cooler. Popularity in my high school seemed less about intelligence and more about how well you could connect and communicate with others. 

So when the authors we’ve been reading describe hackers as social outcasts, nerds who were often left behind, made fun of, and friendless, I find it difficult to relate. I think this disconnect has more to do with the rapid advancement of technology. As it’s become more central to everyday life, people have started to recognize its power and influence. What was once dismissed as a “nerd thing” has shifted into the mainstream, something that “average” people engage with.

What I do agree with is Paul Graham’s idea that school is a simulated, artificial environment where there are no real incentives or consequences, which is why kids so easily get distracted and lose sight of essential priorities. Building on that point, I think my argument about technology reshaping what it means to be a “nerd” holds true. In the past, popularity may have been tied more to fashion, social status, or whatever other factors were needed to be considered “popular”. But as technology has created easier access to the “real world,” even for high school students, priorities have shifted. Students are now increasingly aware of what is expected of them, not only to get into college, but also to succeed beyond it. As a result,  maybe what happens now is that qualities that were once mocked, like intelligence, creativity, and curiosity, have become more desirable, because students now see the real stakes of underperforming in school, giving them some type of focus. Or maybe things are still the same in the US as before, and I was just lucky to grow in a less hostile environment, both of which I considered to be a possibility. 

Now, let's say that there is this big division between popular people and nerds. Well, in that case, I don’t see why being a nerd would be a bad thing; instead, I think it's something to envy, and I thought the same even when I was in high school. I remember telling one of my closest friends that I would kill for like 10% of his brain. He was literally a genius, and things came too easily for him, not to say he did not study, but everything he did, he did right. 

Graham compares hackers with painters, and I love that metaphor because I think it's 100% true, especially now.  A hacker can make so many beautiful things with the tools he has, if only he tries. But to be able to creatively express their talents, they have to understand how to use every tool, how they can mix and match between them, and a bit of creativity to find solutions that are outside of the box. Plus, it is true that every person has a signature when coding. I used to think this was true after all I always thought there was a limited way on how to organize your code, or how to solve a problem but during this summer where I had to collaborate on code with other people I realized hwo true it is, we all use different trips or tricks, order things differently, enough so that it can be hard ot understand others code, and you can only udnerstand what they were doing when you pay attention to it looking at every detail and at the painting as a whole. 

I think that in the end, the difference between the hacker defined by Graham and the hacker defined by Levy is not as big. They both have the same core of creative, intelligent, almost obsessed people. The difference is that I think Graham might be more adapted to modernity, considering external factors of motivation such as financial gains. Given, I do not think this motivation applies to everyone, but it is a generalization of most people who study CS, I would say. I think people should just do whatever makes them happy. If that is getting money, go for it; if that is solving problems just for the joy of it, go for that as well.

