<em style="font-size:1 em;">  <!-- em = italics -->
Today’s reflection is based on the book *Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution (PART TWO)
</em>

<strong style="font-size:1.3em;"> <!-- strong = bold -->
How important is spreading the Hacker Ethic to a wider audience? Is compromising ideals (abandoning parts of the Hacker Ethic), worth having a larger impact on the world (and coincidently more financial success)?
</strong>

Last time I mentioned that I didn't believe true hackers exist anymore, but that is not the case for hardware hackers. From what I gathered from Part 2 of the book, hardware hackers carry forward the same spirit of the original MIT hackers, but in a more realistic way (at least in my opinion). The hardware hackers, just like the "true hackers", at least in their early stages, still value freedom, creativity, passion, solving issues, and sharing free information, but what they value the most is bringing this technology to the community. I think because this was their main goal, they had to find a compromise between the pure hacker ethics and a new version that would allow them to bring all information to the community. 

In a way, I believe that both of these groups were able to tear down some barriers that were essential to getting computers to this point. While the "True hackers" did this by using computers in unexpected ways, like making them play music or serve as a calculator, and whatever else their minds could conjure, they showed the true powers of computers, drifting away from how the corporate world saw them as tools for only specific tasks. They showed that code can be playful, creative, and personal. On the other hand, the hardware hackers tore down barriers by taking computers outside of the labs and making them accessible to the communities, showing how they are not something meant to stay locked away; instead, they should be used as a tool to help empower communities. 

I think where the Hacker Ethics starts to get lost is when the hardware hackers finally succeed in sharing these technologies with the world. It is clear that soon, not only "true hackers" or hardware hackers would have access to computers, but more "average" people would start getting their hands on them. And with that comes the poisonous reality of a world driven by money. Instead of just seeing computers as a way to create, explore, and simply have fun, they start becoming a tool that can give way to more profit. So, hardware hackers were able to open the door for wider impact, but they risked losing the purity of the original "true hackers". 

I think this is the tension we see in Part 2 of the book between Jobs and  Woz. While Woz was still driven by passion, building, experimenting, and sharing his love with others, Jobs was more driven by turning his ideas into money and influence. I think both of them are the perfect example of the shift of hackers when exposed to reality. This mix is what allowed personal computers to reach the world, but it also shows how easily pure ideals can shift once money enters the picture. Don't get me wrong, in no way or shape do I judge those who started looking at computers as a way to make a profit, as I still believe that to be able to live in today's reality, this is simply what everyone needs to do. At the end of the day, while passion, collaboration, and creativity drive innovation, without financial support, it is impossible to maintain those efforts.  

When we think about spreading Hacker Ethics today, we need to consider how to spread it. I think the most realistic view is the one from the hardware hackers, as it shows how Hacker Ethics evolves with the context. I think the important aspect of trying to spread these beliefs is maintaining some of the key values that guide this ethics: creativity, passion, continuous learning, and more. We would not have computers like we do in todays age if it wasn't because of them. I think we have to mantain that openess to share resources to collaborate, to help spread information, but we also can't expect Hacker Ethics to stay in the purist way from the "True Hackers", because that is simply not sustainable in todays world. 